users/reynolaa/index.md, before:

---
title: Aaron-Personal
layout: default
author: Aaron James Reynolds
---
Aaron James Reynolds
==============

<img src="{{ site.url }}users/reynolaa/images/gitpic.jpg" height="300">

[Resume](./files/Resume_AJR.pdf)

[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/aaron-james-reynolds-23b0b9a1/)

I am a graduate student working in the Radiation Transport and Reactor Physics group at Oregon State University.
I focus on the development of computational tools for Molten Salt Reactors. Dr. Todd S. Palmer is my advisor.

## Research Interests

Molten salt reactors (MSRs) are a class of next-generation reactor concepts that benefits from a large negative
temperature coefficient of reactivity, on-line refueling and fission-product removal, and elimination of costly fuel fabrication.

In one branch of MSR concepts, fissile fuel is mixed throughout a circulating molten salt coolant,
creating a fluid-fuel mixture. In a fluid-fuel system, delayed neutron precursors can move from the location
of the initiating fission event before decaying. This can significantly affect the criticality and design of a system. Current modeling software is oriented towards solid-fuel designs and cannot properly model this phenomenon. Similarly, current modeling software cannot properly model on-line refueling and fission-product removal. This motivates the development of multiscale, multiphysics computational methods and tools which can.

My research develops such tools, facilitated by the the use of nodal quasi-diffusion methods.

## Other Interests

I am a self-published singer-songwriter whose neighbors have learned to tolerate the guitar, banjo, and harmonica.
I'm also an avid runner, reader, and amateur watchmaker.

Commit message:

Updated personal page
Update research interests to include work at ORNL, and made mention
of published works.

users/reynolaa/index.md, after:

---
title: Aaron-Personal
layout: default
author: Aaron James Reynolds
---
Aaron James Reynolds
==============

<img src="{{ site.url }}users/reynolaa/images/gitpic.jpg" height="300">

[Resume](./files/Resume_AJR.pdf)

[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/aaron-james-reynolds-23b0b9a1/)

I am a graduate student working in the Radiation Transport and Reactor Physics group at Oregon State University.
I focus on the development of computational tools for Molten Salt Reactors. Dr. Todd S. Palmer is my advisor.

## Research Interests

Molten salt reactors (MSRs) are a class of next-generation reactor concepts that benefits from a large negative
temperature coefficient of reactivity, on-line refueling and fission-product removal, and elimination of costly fuel fabrication.

In one branch of MSR concepts, fissile fuel is mixed throughout a circulating molten salt coolant,
creating a fluid-fuel mixture. In a fluid-fuel system, delayed neutron precursors can move from the location
of the initiating fission event before decaying. This can significantly affect the criticality and design of a system. Current modeling software is oriented towards solid-fuel designs and cannot properly model this phenomenon. Similarly, current modeling software cannot properly model on-line refueling and fission-product removal. This motivates the development of multiscale, multiphysics computational methods and tools which can.

My research aims to develop such tools, facilitated by the the use of quasi-diffusion methods. 

Additionally, I have spent the summers of 2018 and 2019 at Oak Ridge National Lab. 
While there I worked in the Consortium for the Advanced Simulation of Light Water Reactors (CASL) developing on the Virtual Environment for Reactor Applications (VERA). 
Specifically, my work involved extending the fuel performance modeling capabilities of VERA to include some accident tolerant fuel materials and enabling control rod depletion in MPACT.  

## Published and Presented Work

Reynolds, Aaron J., Palmer, Todd S. 
"A Projective Method for Solving the Single-Group Space-Time Neutron Kinetics Equations with Precursor Advection." 
Conference paper and presentation for M&C 2019 organized by the American Nuclear Society.

Reynolds, Aaron J., Stimpson, Shane G., Gardner, Russell. 
"Initial Accident Tolerant Fuel/Cladding Extensions to the VERA to Bison Offline Coupling." 
Conference paper and presentation for Global/Top Fuel 2019 organized by the American Nuclear Society.

## Other Interests

I am a self-published singer-songwriter whose neighbors have learned to tolerate the guitar, banjo, and harmonica.
I'm also an avid runner, reader, and amateur watchmaker.
